# Security issues and features in a VM

The VM is a *relatively* new project. So, it is quite understandable that it might have some security issues like every other system. As we know VMs are implemented using the hypervisor or VMM technology which acts as a layer between the virtual OS and the underlying hardware. Now, this provides a lot of security features such as **isolation, state recording, transience and mobility and External Monitoring**.
- **Isolation**: Isolation refers to the encapsulation of each guest OS and abstraction from the hardware, so that each user accesses separate file systems and memory blocks. This means that a compromised VM won't affect the host OS. This is different from a multi-user OS where if one of the user side is also compromised, it is not very difficult to compromise the entire system. also, the *hypervisor* provides a layer of abstraction which isolates the system from the underlying hardware. This makes sure that even in the case the VM is compromised, the hardware remains stable and thus the attacker doesn't get control of the system.
- **State Recording**: The host OS has the ability to *record* the state of the VM. Most of the VMs take a snapshot of the content changes made in the VM at certain time intervals.This means that we can roll back the VM to a previous state of (ideally an uncompromised one) so that control is restored. The host OS systems have also tried to implement this feature but it isn't as robust.
- **Transience**: The VMs haver the ability to be created and disabled at any point of time. Thus, the resource management of the underlying system is taken care of by this aspect as the VMs are enabled only when they are required. This is different from a host server which has to be ON all the time. This reduces the security risk as any system which has to be compromised has to at least be accessible. Also the DOS attacks(Denial Of Service) can be controlled as any compromised VM can be disabled at any time.
- **Mobility**: The VMs created are in the form of an *image* or a file which can be shared between various systems as a single entity. Thus, they are very mobile in nature.
- **External Monitoring**: For virus and malware protection, normal host OSes have different anti-virus softwares which often these days are not very reliable as attackers can turn off the virus protection thus leaving the system vulnerable. Now VMs have the ability to be monitored from outside the system. They can be monitored from the *hypervisor* or *VM OS dedicated for this purpose.* The second method is more preferred as it leads to less load on hypervisor which now only has to give permissions to the dedicated VM to look at the shared harware resources for some unusual activity.
